# Shard key

- The shard key determines the distribution of the collection’s documents among the clusters shards.
- Can be a single field or a compound index of multiple fields.
- Every field that is part of the shard key must be filled in a document.
- MongoDB partitions data in the collection using ranges of shard key values.

## Sharding strategies

### Hashed Sharding

Hashed Sharding involves computing a hash of the shard key field’s value. Each chunk is then assigned a range based on the hashed shard key values. This is particularly useful if you choose a shard key, which is increasing monotonically (e.g. timestamp). The hash will evenly distribute the documents.

The only drawback to consider are range queries, which will most likely hit all shared in the cluster and could be more performant with the *Ranged Sharding* strategy.

### Ranged Sharding

Ranged sharding involves dividing data into ranges based on the shard key values. Each chunk is then assigned a range based on the shard key values.

This setup allows the routers to point range queries to smaller number of shards. The shard key must be chosen very wisely in this case. Poorly chosen shard keys will have a very high impact on performance.

## How to chose a shard key?

A good shard key supports evenly distributed documents, which related documents living in same or close chunks.

 - Cardinality: There should many different values of the shard key possible. If the key is category with only 4 values, then the max number of chunks is 4.
 - Frequency: Make sure that the values are evenly distributed.
 - Rate of change: Monotonically increasing values could be an issue for ranged sharding.

